Since Vadim Baranov
stepped down as advisor
to Vladimir
Vladimirovich Putin. the Tzar.
the legends about him haven't
waned. they've multiplied.
Most men of power get their
aura from the position they
hold.
When they lose it. it's like a
plug has been pulled.
Baranov was a different breed.
Some say he retreated
to a monastery in Mount Athos.
Others swore they saw him in
Ibiza. surrounded by coked-up
models.
Still others insist they
spotted him on the
front line in Donbas.
Vadim Baranov went through life
in a swirl of enigmas.
The sole certainty
was his influence on the Tzar.
In his fifteen years of
service.
he contributed decisively to
the growth of the Tzar's power.
He was known
as the Wizard of the Kremlin.
the New Rasputin.
He would show up
unannounced at the President's
office
in the middle of the night
to handle urgent matters.
Perhaps the Tzar himself
would call him in
on his personal line.
Occasionally the two of them
were joined by
a prominent minister or the CEO
of some state-owned
conglomerate.
but these witnesses never
shed any light on the Tzar
and his advisors' nightly
activities.
When I returned to
Moscow a few years after his
disappearance
Baranov's memory still loomed
large.
The press persisted in
attributing to him
the most baffling measures
taken by the Kremlin.
As for me. I had just published
an essay in Foreign Affairs
that created something of a
stir.
It was called: "Vadim Baranov
and the Invention of Fake
Democracy".
Laurance Rowland.
If you need anything. just dial
9.
Thank you.
-Have a good day. Mr. Rowland.
-You too.
I took a year's
sabbatical from Yale
to write the first biography
of Yevgeny Zamyatin.
one of Russia's great writers
and an early antagonist
of Stalin's communist regime.
I walked in the pale winter
light.
leafed through old books.
Zamyatin became my obsession.
He was a visionary. and not
just when it came to Stalin.
All subsequent dictators as
well.
From Silicon Valley oligarchs
to China's one-party state.
from Mark Zuckerberg to Xi
Jinping.
His dystopian novel
We
inspired George Orwell's 1984 .
Just outside the city
gloomy.
never-ending woods stretched
all the way to Siberia.
I felt a mix of curiosity
and apprehension.
In Russia. things generally go
pretty well.
But when they go bad.
they go really bad.
[door opens. creaks
Good morning.
Please follow me. Mr. Rowland.
May I take your coat?
I will bring you some tea. Thank
you.
Thank you.
I didn't know you collected old
books.
I don't collect them. I read
them.
There's a major difference.
So you're a reader of Zamyatin.
I have something to show you
that you will truly appreciate.
Do you know what this is?
A letter Zamyatin wrote to
Stalin.
Asking permission
to leave the USSR.
"Dear Iosif Vissarionovich.
"just as the Christians created
the Devil
"as a convenient personification
of all evil.
"so the critics
have transformed me
into the Devil of Soviet
literature."
Zamyatin understood too much.
too quickly.
and made the rash decision
to write about it.
Please.
have a seat.
- You read it?
- Of course.
You even took the
time to make notes.
I'm honored.
Let's not get carried away.
However. compared to the others.
you did understand something.
Not much. but something.
Thank you.
You said
you consider yourself an artist.
Let's just say I played
a supporting role.
I'm retired now.
You don't miss the adrenaline?
Trust me. there is no greater
joy
than waking up every morning.
having coffee and taking
your daughter to school.
How did the others take it?
My leaving?
Badly. of course.
Courtiers forgive everyone:
thieves. murderers. traitors.
But not deserters.
"What? You don't want
what we're willing to kill for?"
And the Tzar?
The Tzar is a different story.
My father feared this library.
It belonged to my grandfather.
Custine. Gracián.
Machiavelli...
The skeptics. the disillusioned.
Hardly the Soviet doxa.
But to his credit. he never
tried to deny me any of them.
Your father?
He ended up director of the
Academy of Social Sciences
for the Communist Party.
His one goal in life was to
avoid
being awakened at dawn by the
KGB banging on his front door.
In his position. he shouldn't
have had to worry about that.
No one was safe in the Soviet
Union.
No one is safe in Russia.
period.
Not me.
Not even you.
When I was growing up.
the most sought after privilege
in Moscow
was the Kremlyovka.
a food basket reserved for the
Communist Party's senior
officials.
What are we eating today?
Salmon piroshki.
lamb cutlets...
Ultimately. my problem
is that I had a happy
childhood.
And in Russia. that's not
normal.
All the Russian elite
experienced Soviet poverty
before they gained access
to villas on the Côte d'Azur.
They still haven't gotten over
it.
Even the Tzar:
"Me. the kid who grew up
in a shoddy kommunalka
"in a gloomy courtyard
in Saint Petersburg.
"Now I'm invited to Buckingham
Palace!"
-Things have changed.
-Not that much.
For you Westerners. money is
essential.
What matters in Russia
is your proximity to power.
The Soviet system was based
on privilege. not cash.
Yesterday there wasn't any.
Tomorrow. who knows. so...
you might as well just blow it
all.
Do you know what a vertushka is?
It was a telephone without a
dial
that allowed Party leaders to
communicate directly with you.
Having one meant you'd made it.
Look. This is a vertushka.
Gray. like everything Soviet.
You think Moscow's gray.
try Washington.
God. they're not gray
there. they're dead.
Anyway. I'm banned from entering
the USA and Europe.
-Is your father still alive?
-No.
He might have subsisted
in this world for a long time.
But then along came Gorbachev
and his glass of milk.
Glass of milk?
You don't have to listen
Gorbachev to know that
he was about to destroy
the Soviet Union.
It was enough to look at him.
He took to the rostrum.
they handed him a glass of
milk.
And he proceeded
to double the price of vodka.
And try to get everyone on
milk.
In Russia!
Can you imagine?
No wonder everything
spun out of control.
That was it for communism
and for my father.
He lost everything.
His job. privileges. reputation.
What about you?
What did you do in those times?
My father
wanted me to be a diplomat.
But I was never keen on
studying.
I did odd jobs.
Found television sets. cassette
decks. and resold them.
Business was good.
I started to make more
money than my father.
A lot more than my father.
I was just a know-nothing kid.
That's why I was better suited
to the new world.
In the early '90s.
Moscow was a dynamic city.
The place was filled with hope
for a few years. Just a few.
Banned books
were coming out every week.
Solzhenitsyn. Pasternak.
Bulgakov...
Art magazines and literary
revues were selling in the
millions.
The Russian appetite for
freedom was insatiable.
So I enrolled in
the Russian Institute
of Theater Arts in Moscow
and began living the messy life
of a thespian.
We were barely 20
and a whole new world
had opened up to us
just as we were finally strong
enough to conquer it.
Hey!
Open the door!
Open this fucking door or I'll
bust you up!
♪ Hush... Comrade ♪
♪ Chaos. Despair. Dread. ♪
♪ That's you in my head. ♪
♪ Unshook unfelt in the snow. ♪
♪ No they will never know. ♪
♪ Hush little Comrade
You're a train wreck. ♪
♪ Seriously shut it tie your
tongue around your neck. ♪
♪ Unshook unfelt in the snow. ♪
♪ No they will never know. ♪
♪ You can't know what I mean ♪
♪ when I say
Odin Odin Odin. ♪
♪ Little Comrade. ♪
You! Fuck off!
Bitch! Fuck you!
Oh. Come here.
Perfect.
You really impressed me.
Yeah?
I had to tell you
because it doesn't happen often.
Okay. well...
That's interesting. um...
Guess you must be pretty
important.
-What exactly impressed you?
-You.
Your performance.
What performance?
Well. wasn't that you singing?
You call that singing?
Oh. what do you call it?
Trendy... bullshit?
-I did that as a favor.
-For who?
The KGB agents watching us.
Ah.
And I'm happy to give them
something
to spice up their reports.
That's a shame. you have talent.
Because I do what New Yorkers
did 15 years ago?
You're a real Soviet.
You think the world's
just waiting for you.
And you're not a real Soviet?
Well. my parents were poor and
crazy.
They were hippies.
They carted me around
from commune to commune.
Now they're old and sick
and they don't believe
in their old values any longer.
And I tell you one thing.
I'm not gonna end up like them.
I'd like to talk to you about a
role.
Would you deign to take me
seriously for a second?
A role.
What.
you mean like the kind
offered to actresses?
Yes. like the kind
offered to actresses.
Well. unfortunately.
I'm not an actress.
And I have no desire to be one.
I might even say
I've done everything in my power
not to be one.
Do you know Yevgeny Zamyatin?
Yeah.
An icon of the most conventional
avant-gardists.
I'm not into that stuff.
With all due respect.
you're missing out.
I'm putting on a
version of his novel
We at the
Institute of Theater Arts.
You take risks.
I might be warming to you a bit.
- Do you have a car?
- Yes.
Take me home.
I'm done with this party.
In a hurry?
What? Too fast for you?
I don't know how I
managed to make contact with
Planet Ksenia.
but I knew immediately that
even if I lived a thousand
years.
I'd never meet anyone else like
her.
Alright. everyone. We're going
to take it again from the top.
Places. please.
Scissors. D-503. places. Let's
go!
Which scene should
we start with?
The scene we've been doing all
night. Yuri. the mirror scene.
And should I sit down or lie
down?
You should be lying and then
when you feel the lights from
the Integral. you may sit up.
Alright. it's all in the
repetition.
This was excellent. thank you
ladies.
The dinner scene was far too
casual.
I need something more
mechanical.
- Is the Integral ready?
- Ready!
Alright. keep your actions going
until you feel the lights
from the Integral.
at which point you all stand up
and walk towards the windows.
Milana. ready?
Yes!
My brothers.
as you all know.
down below in the city
they're building
the Integral Spaceship.
Down with the
Integral! Down with it!
My brothers.
the Integral must be ours.
And she will be ours.
When she rises skywards
for the first time.
we will be the ones aboard.
For we have with us
the builder of the Integral.
He left the city
and came here with me.
To be with you.
Long live the
Builder!
Her ambitions may have been
vague. but...
In any case Muscovite
avant-garde theater had little
chance
of satisfying them.
I know. I lived in Moscow
during those years.
There were no limits.
Everything was collapsing
and being rebuilt at once.
It was a fascinating and
terrifying time.
Ksenia and I lived in our
artistic bubble
while life outside
was rife with possibilities.
Nearly every day.
some former classmate
would come to me with an idea.
a business proposition.
First on his grandfather's
bicycle.
then in an armored Bentley.
surrounded by bodyguards.
That's pretty much
how it happened for Dmitry.
-Sidorov?
-Sidorov. yes.
Dmitry Sidorov.
I'd known him in high school.
Now he was head of the Young
Communist League at the
university.
Don't think he was a Party
apparatchik.
In the late '80s
the student cooperative
was the incubator for Russian
capitalism.
I liked hearing about his
adventures.
I wanted to write a play
about entrepreneurs like him.
You seen Dmitry?
Saw him 5 minutes ago.
Check the bar.
They were a new social
class. emerging out of nowhere
in a matter of months.
It was pretty remarkable.
Vadya!
Good to see you.
Listen.
this café was my first business
but obviously I used it as a
launching pad for more lucrative
endeavors.
Not all of which were legal.
Vadya! There is no more
legality. that's over forget it.
Let me tell you a story.
No writing. close your eyes.
Pretend I'm your Mama.
Once upon a time. I come across
a supply of cognac.
You mean fake cognac.
Fake. real who cares?
It's not the point.
I put it on the market for $50 a
bottle.
You hear that?
Nothing.
No one wants it.
I mark it up to $500.
they're fucking fighting for it!
I'm sure you didn't stop at
cognac.
Computers. acid-wash jeans.
tourist trinkets. software
all of it thanks to the Student
Cooperative.
A few minor cons.
I struggle to believe you.
Can't fool you!
These are some stories to make
you laugh. To make your audience
laugh. It's a play!
It's a play!
An actual fact that
I came up with a scheme
to facilitate the flow of
payments between state-run
businesses.
In a nutshell. I borrow money
and lend it to others for a fee.
Basically what is known as a
bank. but...
no one in this country knows
what a bank is.
Tough questions!
Yes. you could say that
and since I created Russia's
first commercial bank.
I'll tell you how I did it.
I found a book:
Commercial Banks of Capitalist
Countries.
Remarkable work!
It explains simply and in great
detail
how the banking system works.
And I said. hey. I like this.
Would you describe yourself as
greedy?
Absolutely. Yes. absolutely.
I didn't use to be. but I grow
greedier. now. by the day.
It's an asset in my line of
work.
I have a banker's personality.
I love money.
-Nice suit.
-Nice shirt.
Good read.
A bit behind the times.
you still had your moustache.
Journalists are always behind
the times. I don't need to tell
you. Vadya.
Bloody hick mustache.
You did well to shave it off.
How's the play coming along?
-Um. my play about you?
-Yes.
-I won't write it.
-Why?
Because it's over now.
You can't tell me the truth
anymore.
You're right.
But you know I never could tell
you the whole truth.
No. but you used to tell me a
bit more.
Thank you.
So. this is the famous Dmitry?
I see no other.
Vadim says you're worth
80 million rubles a year.
-Is that true?
-Could be. I don't know.
He also says you're a thug.
Is that so?
There's nothing wrong with that.
Uh...
Ulysse Nardin.
A bit too flashy to be elegant.
- Don't you think?
- Flashy?
Says the girl
with a fucking bear on her head!
In the world I move in. it's
better to be flashy than
elegant.
You get more respect.
That explains your dreadful tie.
Eugenio Marinelli from Naples.
va bene!
Bellissima cravata.
Never heard of it.
Of course you haven't. one tiny
boutique.
He travels the world
to make ties to measure.
They make ties to measure?
In the world I move in. they
can.
You like champagne?
Too flashy for you?
I should have known
from that very first encounter
that my fate was sealed.
Ksenia would choose Dmitry.
his vulgarity. his energy.
He felt it immediately.
And so did I.
But for a long time
I refused to believe it.
Yes?
Coming. coming. coming.
-Bad time?
-Dmitry?
I wanted to surprise you.
Come. come. come. come. come.
come. come. come. come. come..
Let's go. let's go!
Are you hungry?
- I have some flashy things!
- Yes!
Caviar!
Vadya! Maybe you put
me in a play I show you. okay?
From that moment on.
Dmitry became a frequent
visitor to our house.
There I was. thinking he came
out of some deep-rooted respect
for the art Ksenia and I had
chosen to dedicate our lives
to.
As if culture still
had the power to exert
any influence over the real
world.
Oh. man. I love that sound!
The sleek.
shiny world of money
was Dmitry's natural habitat.
Nothing could
turn him away from it.
But he wanted Ksenia.
so he was willing
to spend a little time with us
in the ruins of the city of the
dead.
Ksenia. go. go. go.
As the months passed.
Ksenia became increasingly
receptive to his largess.
Everything that initially
defined our friendship.
books we shared. concerts.
the all-night discussions.
had fallen by the wayside
in favor of more
money-centric activities.
Gallery and discotheque
openings.
dinners at White Sun or
Ermitazh.
Ksenia was getting higher
by the minute
on Dmitry's lifestyle.
Vadya's dancing!
Vadya! Smile!
I'm smiling!
Communism is dead.
There's a whole new world to
invent.
You're gonna be a part of it.
You know Vadya.
he doesn't like to go out.
What he likes is going home.
Yes!
I remember waking up one
night and gazing at her for a
long time.
I felt so tired.
even though I hadn't
accomplished anything yet.
I nurtured the illusion that
Ksenia would perceive my
greatness.
But as the days passed.
I noticed that the way she saw
me was changing.
What began as a vague look of
irony was morphing into
contempt.
"You're stronger than I am
because you don't love me."
I wanted to tell her.
My pain only augmented her
boredom.
Stop the car.
Stop the car!
Stop the fucking car!
Yeah. you want some water?
There you go.
Dmitry. I've told you 10
times you drive too rough!
I know no other way.
Let Vadim take the wheel
or I hitchhike home.
Do you wanna. like.
go in the back. or...
That's sweet of you. honey.
but I get even sicker in the
back.
There's something I forgot to
tell you.
I'm listening.
I'm leaving.
Is that all you can muster?
You saw me in the car with
Dmitry.
Do you think I missed that?
It's been over between us for a
long time.
Come in.
You're not disturbing me.
I was afraid to wake you.
Have a seat.
Finally I have an excuse
to stay in bed all day.
Rereading the classics and
dozing.
That suits me.
There's the illness.
This may surprise you.
but illness is not necessarily
a serious thing.
Serious things.
like effort and work.
are the burden of people in good
health.
Those who are dying
have nothing more to do.
They can just enjoy their days.
I left Ksenia.
I know.
You'll have a dozen
opportunities to start over.
I expected to suffer terribly.
but...
I feel lighter. and strong.
You see.
But theater is no longer enough
for me.
Losing Ksenia has made me
ambitious.
Ambitious now?
That's unexpected.
But all the better.
I'll take it as good news.
I cannot bear the writer's
failure to affect reality.
I want to be part of my times.
not just a witness.
You know what?
I'll leave your times to you.
With no regrets.
This is Sputnik.
The only one allowed inside.
Come here. Sputy. say hi.
My daughter loves him.
In the end. my father had an
attack and died very suddenly.
The ceremony wasn't exactly
headline news.
Four poor souls followed the
hearse in a beat-up car
while the shiny SUVs of the
nouveaux riches sped past them.
He died too late.
He probably would have wanted
a nicer funeral.
But in the end
he didn't give a damn.
At least. I hope he didn't.
I needed to get my mind
off things.
and Moscow in the mid-'90s was
the perfect place to do that.
Imagine all those young men
and women suddenly seeing
a new world of possibility
opening up before them.
They could become
whatever they wanted.
amass fortunes.
travel the world.
It was enough to make your head
spin.
It was a time of incredible
violence.
There was gunfire everywhere.
for the most frivolous reasons.
Men of no importance were
escorted by private militia
until the day they were blown
sky-high.
Turning my theater
experience
into a career as a TV producer
was like going from a horse and
cart to a Lamborghini.
One day I was in a
kitchen
rhapsodizing about Mayakovsky
and drinking hot tea.
The next. I was nursing a latte
in an open space
designed by Dutch architects.
Forget Channel One. forget state
TV.
We're a private company.
Times have changed.
We're going to do game shows
and politics.
But different.
The Soviets tried to
smother this country
under a lid of boredom.
The first rule. don't be boring.
There's one project that stands
out from the others. This one.
Do you know why?
No.
Because it has
all the Russian stereotypes.
not a single one left out.
The provincial Babushka.
the nihilistic student.
the ambitious slut.
I read it. It stinks.
I read them all. and they all
stink!
Especially that one.
Except that it'll work.
Remember we're not just
producing shows.
all the other institutions have
collapsed.
It's now up to TV to show the
way.
Maybe a reality show
about finishing schools that
teach young girls to attract
freshly minted millionaires?
Well that's not bad.
Does that genuinely exist?
It totally exists.
It's big and it's getting
bigger.
My dream is to be
an international superstar.
My dream is to buy my mom
the most beautiful
house in Krasnoyarsk.
My dream is to be the trophy
wife
of the richest oligarch in
Russia
- and live my life in Monte
Carlo. -
She's the one.
No. seriously. she's the one.
Oh. it's an excellent project
and this girl rightfully belongs
in it.
At that time. the owner
of RTP
was a mathematician who'd
become a billionaire. Boris
Berezovsky.
He bought an old palace
on Novokuznetskaya Street.
It was meant to be the
headquarters of his business
but Berezovsky did something
else with it entirely.
something far more special.
Made it a club of sorts.
the LogoVaz Club.
It was very exclusive.
The crème de la crème of
politics.
big business. show biz and
crime.
So picture the scene: when the
Caucasus. we're in Chechnya.
And I'm standing in front of a
warlord
who has taken Russian officers
hostage.
And it's no joke.
He's already beheaded one of
them.
But it wasn't politics. it was
business. He wanted money. only
cash.
Right now. I don't have cash on
me. I don't walk around with
wads of cash.
But I notice him eyeing my
watch.
A Patek Philippe Nautilus like
the one I'm wearing tonight.
So I say to him.
"You like my watch?
"Do you know how much it's
worth? It's worth more than your
hostages."
And he says. "I know exactly
what it's worth:
it's worth $800.000. used."
That floored me.
He knew the exact price.
Rustam was no fool.
He said.
"If you take the hostages home.
"the publicity you'll get on TV
is worth more than $800.000."
And he gave me this vacuous
soldier's stare. Zero bullshit.
"So you come out ahead. Is it a
deal?"
So I gave him my watch.
took the hostages home.
It was the opening story
on the evening news.
In those days my modest
achievements as a TV producer
got me the occasional
invitation to LogoVaz club.
Usually. Berezovsky would
summon me for an
update on some project
or to suggest
I hire some random relative
or equally random mistress.
Come in.
-Vadya!
-Boris.
Our friend Vadya is a wizard.
With his help.
we pulverize our opponents.
You happy where you are?
I'm not sure I understand.
In this country you run the same
risk.
whether you have a dog in the
fight or no.
I'll tell you my story.
you'll see what I mean.
So I was perfectly content
doing my own thing.
I'd built a smart. modern. clean
business.
From what I hear your business
was more of a scam.
You resold stolen cars
right off the assembly line.
I was only doing what everyone
was doing that time.
Only worse.
You weren't choosy about your
partners and their methods.
-No offense.
-Anyway.
One day this bastard shows up
tries to steal my business
out from underneath me.
What do you think he does?
Does he open a competing
dealership?
Try to beat me fair and square.
like in the US or Europe?
No Boris. that's not what he
did.
That son of a bitch
filled an old Opel with TNT.
parked it on my route home.
and as I passed.
he pushed a remote and boom...
no more Berezovsky.
At least that was the plan.
But unfortunately.
it didn't work out for him.
And I ended up with my
chauffeur's head in my arms.
I survived.
But that day I realized
that if you don't grab power.
power grabs you.
So I went to Switzerland
for two weeks to recover
and do you know what I did
when I got back to Moscow?
You learned to play tennis.
And it wasn't easy.
I hate the sport.
You hate all sports!
The old President.
Boris Yeltsin. was in decline.
He overdid it on the vodka.
they say.
He had a sports club
built on Sparrow Hills
that looked out over Moscow.
He spent all his spare time
playing tennis there.
It was the only way to get near
him.
Let's face it. Boris was
finished.
The elections were coming.
his numbers were in the dumps.
His whole retinue of petty
schemers were at rock bottom.
And they quickly understood
that I was their only hope.
We hadn't lost yet.
Listen to me.
Boris Nikolayevich.
Russia still needs you.
Your courage and your integrity.
No one loves me anymore.
I saved democracy.
but democracy here means
that everyone has become poor.
Except for a few smart devils
like you.
who've gotten filthy rich!
Well. if you give me
control of state TV.
Then I will give you an election
campaign like you've never seen.
You're in dire straits now. but
in 2 months you'll be on top.
This is how I took control of
Channel 1.
RTP. as it's now called.
And for the record.
I kept my word.
I revived him in the polls.
What you did was sink his
rivals.
A bunch of Communist nostalgics.
taking them out was a cinch.
You were defending your
interests. and those of the
other oligarchs.
Yup. it's true.
So what?
-It's all part of the democratic
process. -Right!
When you have a very loose
notion of democracy.
So over the course of
the rallies
the old man began to enjoy
himself.
Problem was.
that two weeks before the
election he had a heart attack
on us.
-That was a close call.
-Hm.
The-- the very day that
he was supposed to record
his final speech to the nation.
Obviously we canceled
everything.
But a few days later.
the rumors began to spread.
he had to show up.
Except his doctor wouldn't
let him leave his residence.
Oh. it was too risky.
So we figured. to keep up
appearances.
we'd bring the Kremlin furniture
to him.
OK. flags.
Put the flags in the stands.
Federation flag on the left.
Check the distance.
-The President is on his way
down. -Yeah. good.
No. no. no.
Good morning.
Boris Nikolayevich!
Come over. see what we've done.
A perfect copy of your Kremlin
office.
No one's gonna notice the
difference.
Help him with the chair.
Russian citizens. um...
it's why. um...
the motherland. uh...
- Let's try again.
- ...will take place.
Misha. can you slow down the
prompter?
...for the future.
Russian citizens. um...
Once again. please.
Russian citizens...
the 3rd of July
elections day...
you'll not...
only vote for Yeltsin...
This is not going to work.
For-- for not-- for
the future.
Just make him move his lips
and we'll dub in bits
from his old speeches.
Yeltsin was reelected
by a landslide.
And then he fell back into
lethargy.
He had two more heart attacks.
For four years of his 2nd term.
Berezovsky was the real leader
of Russia.
The oligarchs raked in
everything they could.
That's how my old pal. Dmitry
Sidorov.
bought himself a fossil fuel
giant for a mere 168 million.
It would go on to make him
3 billion a year.
Olya!
Berezovsky sensed
the winds were turning.
Russians were tired
and needed order.
They'd grown up in a
motherland.
now all they had was a
supermarket.
A challenge was to come up with
a solution
before someone else did.
So yes.
I have friends in the Kremlin.
And I lend a hand from time to
time.
But the scenario has completely
changed.
It's no longer a matter of
supporting the current regime.
We need to invent something new.
Something and someone.
The President won't make it
to the end of his term.
Someone to embody it. of course.
That's the easy part.
But what we need.
first. is a party
for everyone to rally around.
The Unity Party.
What do you think. Vadya?
I already have an emblem.
The bear.
Symbol of the Russian soul.
So. will you join us?
I don't know. Boris.
I like my job.
It's the same job.
I'm merely suggesting that you
graduate to the next level.
Stop making up stories.
start inventing reality.
With me.
The head of the FSB
would make a good candidate.
The old geezer trusts him.
he's shown his mettle
at decisive moments
and he's a modest guy.
You'll like him.
Director Putin will see you now.
Come. sit.
Sit.
I know why you're here.
Of course you do. You're the
best-informed man in Russia.
I've been thinking it over.
Boris Abramovich.
Uh.
You see.
the Secret Service has all the
advantages of politics
without any of the drawbacks.
I'm at the center of the system
here.
I'm well positioned.
I hear. I see everything.
I can effectively intervene
to protect the President.
the President's family.
I've done it before. I'll do it
again.
You take me out of here.
put me in government.
they chew me up. spit me out
like every other Prime Minister
these past years.
these past months. right?
And you lose the most loyal
guardian of the State.
If we don't act quickly. within
a year there'll be no more
President. no more family to
protect.
And the first thing that the new
head of the Kremlin will do
is replace you.
Why me?
I'm a civil servant.
I-- Sure. I-- I've given. hm...
a couple of speeches in public.
but that they-- they were never
earth-shattering.
The President steps into a room
and sniffs the air.
everyone is on his side in two
minutes. laughing. and they're
crying.
like they're having a chat in
his kitchen.
I'm not-- I'm not that man.
I'm not cut from that cloth.
If I may. Vladimir
Vladimirovich.
that's exactly what this is
about.
The President
has a one-of-a-kind personality.
His human qualities were
essential for moving our country
from the old Soviet Union
to today's Russia.
But he's all used up.
We need someone different.
A clean break.
If the President names
you Prime Minister of
Vladimir Vladimirovich.
you will represent legitimate
authority.
Russians need stability and
security.
You're young. athletic.
energetic.
Something about you says.
"I can handle the full
responsibility of command."
Your career in
the secret services
guarantees you're trustworthy.
And being a man of few words
will work in your favor.
Not against you.
Russians are tired of carnival
barkers.
And the campaign we have in mind
won't be the usual rallies
and empty promises.
We want to take the risk
of portraying you
as a different brand of
politician.
Vladimir Vladimirovich.
I don't know much about politics
but I do know a few things
about communication.
There are two dimensions in a
society.
The horizontal axis
that is daily life
and the vertical axis.
which is authority.
The Soviet system was vertical
then all of a sudden since
the end of the Soviet period
it has become horizontal.
Too much horizontality
is synonymous with chaos.
Russians dream of verticality.
Public opinion coalesces fast.
But we only have a few months
to convince the Russian people
that you are the man of the
hour.
And remember.
you won't be on your own.
I'll be there by your side
to help you and to advise you
whenever you need me.
It's in the bag.
He's no rocket scientist.
but for now he'll do just fine.
I nodded along and
laughed with him.
But things were a bit more
complicated
than what Berezovsky seemed to
grasp.
How are you?
When he addressed
him with his own
brand of chummy joviality.
I sensed a hint of annoyance
in Putin's gaze.
And then there was
that flash of irony
when Boris promised to guide
him every step of the way.
It seemed the very idea
of being guided by this man
was wildly funny to the FSB
chief.
Hurry up. Vadim
Alexeyevich.
Vladimir Vladimirovich is
waiting.
Good afternoon. sir.
Recommendations?
Today we have excellent sea
scallops
with cauliflower mousseline...
A bowl of kasha.
- Two.
- Certainly. sir.
I have a lot of
respect for Berezovsky.
I'm grateful
for his offer. but if...
I embark
on this...
journey.
I'll be relying on my own
strengths.
Not someone else's.
The Russian president cannot and
must not
be subservient to anyone.
It's unthinkable to me.
Your analysis the other day
was very interesting.
But first we should clarify
something.
If you accept my offer.
you'll be working exclusively
for me.
Vadim Alexeyevich.
I've been thinking about your
concept of verticality.
It's potent.
But it cannot remain abstract.
We need a well-defined arena
where we can
restore the verticality of
power.
Otherwise we'll appear helpless.
like all the other politicians
in this country.
Indeed. Vladimir Vladimirovich.
but we can't just snap our
fingers.
There is always the unexpected.
The unexpected is always a
result of incompetence.
We're at the mercy of
circumstance.
Circumstance?
It's staring us in the face.
Don't you see it?
The Islamic fundamentalists
are no longer content with just
Chechnya.
They want Dagestan.
Ingushetia. Bashkortostan.
We let them have them.
in a few years there'll be
nothing left of the Russian
Federation.
I'm sorry but I would think
twice
before getting involved in that
mess.
These past few years
Chechnya has killed more
political careers here in Moscow
than enemies on the battlefield.
None of them have put enough
energy into the issue.
Those politicians want a war
that dare not speak its name.
A humane war.
like the Americans do.
I'm talking about something
else.
I'm not interested in
winning the Nobel Peace Prize.
What interests me
is restoring integrity
to the Russian Federation.
I won't comment on geopolitics.
That's not my field of
expertise.
What I will say. however.
is that it's political suicide.
I think you're mistaken.
I think. you've let Westerners
persuade you
that an electoral campaign has
to be two teams of economists
discussing PowerPoint
presentations.
In Russia.
power
is something else entirely.
That day.
I didn't understand
precisely what Putin meant.
But I left the lunch with one
certainty:
Berezovsky had just made the
biggest mistake of his life.
In the early days of August.
Boris Yeltsin chose a new Prime
Minister.
unknown to most.
The choice of Vladimir Putin
was greeted with general
skepticism.
He was the fifth head
of government Yeltsin
and enthroned in less than a
year.
Our offices were located
in the former House of Soviets.
dubbed the Russian White House.
A giant block of naphthalene on
the banks of the Moskva River.
A whole floor had been freed up
for new hires.
Putin knew there were
only a few weeks left
to harness public opinion.
He had no time to lose.
Tell that son of a bitch
the Prime Minister wants results
on the grounds.
Doesn't matter how.
Sorry. but the media doesn't
set our agenda. politics does.
We're here to produce results.
not limp excuses.
I have the polls you requested.
I need you to crunch the
numbers.
I'll meet you in your office.
I have to see Gusinsky first.
We're on the right track.
Dmitry Anatolyevich. we
shouldn't be on the right track.
we should already be there.
Where's Gusinsky?
Unfortunately he couldn't make
it.
-Are we not important enough for
him? -He's abroad.
So who are you. his messengers?
We run the NTV network.
Uh.
Please give Mr. Gusinsky
the following message:
The policies of the Russian
Federation
are not to be decided
in the offices of NTV.
That never crossed Mr.
Gusinsky's mind.
I watch Kukly.
your political puppet show.
Sometimes I find it funny.
I laugh. I do!
Unfortunately the Prime Minister
doesn't share your sense of
humor.
He suspects Mr. Gusinsky may
have a bone to pick with him.
No way. never in a million
years.
That's a shame he's not here
to explain that himself.
You represent Prime Minister
-Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin as
a midget. -That's not correct...
A deformed dwarf
manipulated by oligarchs.
I thinks in the minds of the
gagmen. he's more of a child.
Yes.
exactly.
And you see that as grounds for
laughter. an infantile gnome?
It's a satirical show.
It's up to the Prime Minister
to determine a line
between satire and insult.
especially during election
season.
The Prime Minister has
determined a line that must not
be crossed.
I believe Mr. Gusinsky
can guess where that line is.
If not. he'll find out at his
own expense.
Good day!
Of course I was working
18-hour days.
Back-to-back meetings
with the Prime Minister.
every single one of them
involving decisions
of major historical importance.
The deeper I sank into the
routine of governing men.
the more the world seemed rife
with misunderstanding
and missed opportunities.
And that's
when the unexpected happened.
One autumn night.
just after midnight.
a terrific rumbling tore
through the darkness of the
capital.
On Guryanova Street
on the outskirts of Moscow.
hundreds of kilos of explosives
literally cut a 9-story
apartment complex in two.
Dozens of sleeping families
were swallowed up
alive by the explosion.
Four days later.
A second explosion
rocked the city at 5
o'clock the morning.
destroying another building
in the suburbs.
Over a hundred victims.
It was our September 11th.
Before that. the
Chechen War had felt remote.
But when buildings started
blowing up in the Moscow
suburbs.
Russians found themselves
with a war at their front door.
Of course.
you know what...
people say?
They say we were behind it.
By "we" I mean the FSB.
It isn't just a rumor.
There's serious evidence to back
it up.
Frankly. I don't know.
If this is a bona fide secret.
thank God nobody shared it with
me
but why would we have done that?
We were certain to win.
To instill fear.
So the Russian people would
feel threatened by the
Chechens.
And to justify the second
Chechen War.
Perfectly timed to warm public
opinion
to a coming authoritarian
regime.
You know I don't like public
speaking.
Right now the people
need to hear your voice.
Here. on a state visit.
not from the Kremlin Palace.
You have to give them a sense of
urgency.
I'm not an actor.
I'll give them a simple
statement.
Word has it you've ordered
the bombing of Grozny Airport
in retaliation for the attacks.
Don't you think such actions
could aggravate the situation?
I'm tired of answering this kind
of question.
We'll get the terrorists
wherever they're hiding.
If they're in an airport.
we'll strike the airport.
if they're in the shitter.
excuse my language.
but we'll get them in the
shitter.
You have no idea
the impact that one sentence
had on the Russian people.
Finally. we were hearing
a voice of command and control.
Russians hadn't heard that
in the longest time.
Stalin's voice?
Not Yeltsin's in any case.
Or Gorbachev's.
That day. Putin became the Tzar.
Mr. Prime Minister...
...we can't land at Gudermes.
visibility is too poor.
I planned to spend New Year's
Eve with our troops. Understand?
We must land!
- We need--
- No. no. no. we must land!
We need 150 meters of
visibility.
We've got scarcely 100.
It's too dangerous.
We have troops stationed in
Dagestan.
They're ready for inspection.
Could serve as an alternative.
If the Tzar wanted to
ring in the New Year
in Chechnya. well then.
that's where we'd go.
At 1 a.m. we got into some
jeeps
and headed for the mountain
passes.
33rd division. Lieutenant
Colonel Fedorov.
Welcome on the base. Mr. Putin.
Men. what you're doing is so
important.
People believe in you.
I'm here to tell you that.
We're proud of you.
You're working hard.
I know what you and your men
have done. Very courageous.
I want you to know the Russian
people think of you
and are proud of you.
Happy New Year.
Wait. wait.
I would love to drink a toast
to the health of the wounded
and to wish
everyone present here
a happy new year.
but we have serious tasks ahead.
As you all know.
we're not only fighting
for the honor
and dignity of our country.
we're fighting to prevent
Russia from disintegrating.
We can't afford one second of
weakness. not one second.
If we let our guard down.
all those who died.
died in vain.
So I suggest we put our glasses
down.
We will toast. but uh later.
I am leaving...
Leaving before the end of my
term.
I understand that it is
necessary.
Russia must enter
a new millennium
with new political leaders.
and I leave you all
in the trusted hands
of Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin.
The Yeltsin era is over.
Your friend Berezovsky has to
know
I'm fed up with his bullshit
memos.
I thought he was our friend.
Boris is a very smart man.
But his intelligence is no
safeguard for his stupidity.
Better bring him in.
Boris Abramovich.
Come.
Sit.
I've read your messages.
some of your memos.
You've always offered good
advice.
I'm all ears.
Volodya. you made me wait an
hour...
You asked for this meeting.
Here we are.
Go ahead.
Well. I'll be brief.
We're becoming too negative.
Volodya.
It's too dark.
We're at war. fine. we get it.
You're a great general. you're
gonna lead us all to victory.
but let's make an effort. hm.
Give these poor Russians
a little bit of hope. too.
Otherwise rather than voting for
you. they're gonna jump out the
window.
Rallies and concerts.
and TV commercials. posters!
-We need to make a splash.
-And who will pay for that?
I will. of course!
I heard you passed up free
public TV airtime?
That's correct.
It's our choice. Our strategy.
We'll see if the facts prove us
right.
If you keep this up.
people will forget you're a
candidate.
Don't be ridiculous. Boris.
I've been interim President for
3 months. We're the government.
Our campaign is the news.
what we're doing.
the history we're making.
Nobody believes advertising
anymore.
Facts are the only advertising
we're interested in.
The Tzar had reinstated
the Power Vertical
- and voters were grateful
to him for it. -
He was elected President
of the Russian Federation with
no runoff.
Berezovsky stopped bombarding
the Kremlin
with unanswered phone calls.
Naturally. his media mocked
the pompous inauguration
ceremony.
But Boris was waiting
for something else:
a chance to show the Tzar
who was really in charge.
Sir...
Umhm.
Hm.
On August 12. 2000. the
Kursk.
one of the world's
largest nuclear submarines.
sank during a training exercise
in the Barents Sea.
There were a hundred crewmen
aboard.
Some of them died instantly.
Others were trapped
at the bottom of the sea.
This was the opportunity
Berezovsky had been waiting
for.
We rented a helicopter to keep
a constant eye
on the area where the sub sank.
-Has it been identified?
-Yes.
The information just dropped.
but no rescue team is on site.
That's revolting.
that's what we have to expose.
Russian experts
won't go on the record.
-Find them abroad.
-We have a crew in Germany.
They say NATO forces offered
their help.
but the Russian navy turned it
down.
They're spy ships.
Russia can't humiliate herself
in front of them.
Can't humiliate herself
in front of them?
Go find the families.
ask them what they think!
-That's what we're doing.
-TV's all about emotion.
The emotion's with the families.
Can you imagine their anguish?
Their loved ones may still be
alive. trapped inside a
watertight container.
waiting for a rescue
that may never come!
The situation was out of
control.
I rushed to Sochi.
I couldn't understand
why Putin wasn't on the ground.
What would you have me do?
They're all dead. it's obvious.
We can't say it until we reach
them yet.
According to all the experts.
there are survivors on board.
That's a fact.
We have to save them.
I don't care if they're dead or
alive. Berezovsky's circus is
about hurting me.
Everyone is waiting for you to
act.
I act when I decide the time is
right.
Your composure has enhanced
your popularity thus far.
but it's becoming a liability.
The Russian people are suffering
and you're not with them.
This is a serious matter.
Since the
authorities are still refusing
to budge.
RTP has created a fund for the
families of the sailors.
Call this number if you want
to support the relatives...
Do you realize?
They destroyed the State.
pillaged it for ten years.
bankrupted our army.
now they're raising money!
Fucking bastards!
Why don't they sell their
fucking chalets in Saint-Moritz!
Get that son of a bitch on the
phone.
Yes.
Yeah?
Do you realize what you're
doing?
Your network is giving
round-the-clock airtime
to whores
pretending to be sailors' wives.
What are you talking about?
You out of your mind?
They're not whores.
they're the real wives!
You're State television. Boris.
and you're conspiring
against the Presidency!
What does that mean. hm?
What does this mean. exactly?
I'm asking you a question!
I have a question for you.
Vladimir Vladimirovich.
What the hell are you doing
vacationing on the Black Sea?
Shouldn't you be in Murmansk
running operations?
Where are you?
Fucking laughing! Where are you.
huh?
Côte d'Azur. right? What are you
doing at Côte d'Azur?
Oh. c'mon!
I'm not the President.
nobody gives a damn where I am!
Plus. it so happens I am in
Moscow!
Just think about it. Volodya.
If you go and console the
sailors' wives.
your ratings will
go through the roof.
And our network will put
its full firepower behind you.
And you know that's
substantial.
Well?
We're going back to Moscow.
Set up that fucking meeting.
We have no choice.
And once this mess is behind us.
we'll take care of your friend
Boris.
He doesn't mean you any harm.
He respects you.
You stay safely in Moscow.
do whatever business you like.
But you must stay out of
politics once and for all.
Politics is his business.
Putin is the pure product of the
KGB.
Its fiercest species.
He will put Russia in shackles.
And all we've done in the last
10 years
to turn it into a normal country
will be swept away.
Even you. Vadya.
You're creating a regime
worse than the Soviet Union.
At least back then.
the Party could muzzle
the KGB guard dogs.
But now the Party no longer
exists.
The FSB is worse than the KGB.
Who's gonna stop them. you?
Certainly not.
You've become one of them.
They're vicious animals.
They come from the void.
They've cleared their path
with a sledgehammer.
No rules. no limits.
They're hungry.
It's brutish hunger.
They were humiliated.
They're descended
from centuries of humiliation.
They have to grab everything
right away.
Because they know the tables
will turn.
Maybe. Boris.
I don't know.
What I do know is that Russia
has always been forged this way.
With an axe.
Cautiously. Berezovsky
chose exile in London.
Meanwhile. we were taking off
for New York.
When you reach the top.
politics propels you onto
the world stage with no
preparation.
The world's greats become your
peers.
But they're a closed circle.
They've had time to get
acquainted.
learn the ground rules.
However much you may be feared
and respected in your own
country.
here. you're just the new kid
on the block.
The Waldorf Astoria is the best
hotel.
And protocol has booked us a
whole floor.
20 rooms.
Penthouse?
No.
Why not?
Top 3 floors are booked by the
year for the Saudis.
This won't take more than an
hour.
15 minutes to the TV studio.
half-hour interview. 15 minutes
back.
-It's a good hit for us.
-Hm-hm.
What's this?
It's the freeze.
The US President's motorcade
is on the move.
No one else can budge.
How long does it last?
Depends.
So what's it like being a spy?
Not very different
from being a journalist.
Your job is to gather
information. to synthesize it.
You show it to the decision
makers who can use that
information.
Did you enjoy it?
Working in intelligence
allowed me to broaden my vision.
To acquire certain skills.
Skills of management.
focusing on priorities.
A learning experience.
The Kursk tragedy shook
everyone.
Can you tell me what happened?
What happened to the submarine?
It sank.
If fucking Martians
were to seize power in Moscow.
the US would immediately see
them as a legitimate government.
just as long as they didn't go
near their interests
and deferred to them as the big
boss.
The trouble is. they think
they won the Cold War.
but the Soviet Union
didn't lose it.
The Cold War ended because
we freed ourselves from a
dictatorship.
which is not the same thing.
We dismantled the Warsaw Pact.
We offered them an olive branch.
Not surrender.
They should bear that in mind.
Just once in a while.
Limonov respects you.
I thought he despised me.
He's a visionary.
Everyone has a place in his
party.
So what do you think
of my revolutionary avant-garde?
The Kremlin isn't exactly
quaking in its boots.
The Kremlin is very wrong.
Sit down.
So. how was the trip?
You know what it's like over
there.
Always fairly amusing I guess.
Yes. New York can be fun.
as long as you avoid the
Americans.
Which one do you prefer.
Eduard?
This one!
Imperialism isn't the problem.
American culture is.
You used to be attracted to it.
before it swallowed you up
and spat you out.
Watching Yeltsin
turn Russia into a cheap version
of the American nursing home
prompted me to form
the National Bolshevik Party.
And you know why I called it
that?
To infuriate you!
Nazbol!
We bring together former
Stalinists.
homosexuals and punks.
anarchists. skinheads.
religious fanatics
from Buddhist to Orthodox!
The hardest part is keeping them
from smashing each other's heads
in.
You can be sure
they will sooner or later.
Oh. you don't understand.
These young people want
to escape the boredom
of ordinary life.
They crave heroics.
And it would be a shame to waste
that.
May I bum a cigarette. Sergei?
Yes.
I need a walk.
I'd always seen Eduard
Limonov as a brilliant
sociopath
with no political acumen
whatsoever.
So I wasn't yet ready to
recognize that he was right.
For the first time I saw
his reasoning for what it was.
Not the result of rigorous
analysis
but far more than casual
intuition.
Come in.
Vladimir Vladimirovich.
Vadim Alexeyevich is here to see
you.
You may come in.
How are my ratings?
Elections are coming. Vadya.
You don't really need to worry.
You're round 60%.
Closest candidate gets no more
than 12%.
I'm not interested in them.
they're insignificant.
One Russian is more popular than
I am.
Stalin.
I believe he's been dead
for some time.
You intellectuals insist on
denouncing
the horrors of the Gulag.
You think Stalin was popular
in spite of the killings.
You're wrong.
Stalin was popular
because of the killings.
because he knew how to handle
a thief. a traitor.
Know what Stalin did when
the Soviet-run trains
started to derail?
No. I don't.
He had the head of the railway
shot for sabotage.
It didn't solve the problem.
possibly aggravated it.
But it allowed an outlet for
fury.
Fury is a structural given.
No point fighting it.
it must be managed.
-You want to feed the fury.
-Yes.
People want a head to roll.
Whose?
The most arrogant oligarch.
Dmitry Sidorov.
Your former friend.
I'm told he ran off with your
woman.
She must have made you happy.
Didn't last long.
Let bygones be bygones.
You know. he's planning
to sell a majority share
of his fossil fuel empire to
Exxon Mobil.
Been at it long enough.
He'll make himself
20 billion dollars richer
by putting our fossil fuel giant
in the hands of American
investors.
You could say that a Russian
company
will acquire international
status.
I won't say that. it isn't true.
He's gathered a huge war chest
to run against me in the 2007
election.
How do you know?
How do you think?
We tapped his phone.
"Nonentity."
That's what he calls me when he
speaks to his friends in
Washington. D.C.
"A nonentity."
He explains that when elected.
he'll change the constitution
and dismantle the nuclear
arsenal.
"Nonentity!"
This man...
has fed me more mud than I can
swallow.
So I've ordered
Dmitry Sidorov be arrested
tomorrow at dawn.
He's heading to Siberia.
has to stop to refuel.
That's where we'll take him.
Cameramen. photographers.
they'll all be on site.
Your job is to orchestrate it
for the media.
Go. go. go.
-Nobody move!
-Okay.
This is it.
Here we are.
The news went all around
the world.
The immediate effect was to
remind people
that money can't protect
you from everything.
Of course for you Westerners.
this is totally taboo.
A politician arrested. why not?
But a billionaire? Unthinkable.
Because your society
was founded on the principle
that there is no power
greater than money.
My job was to fit Dmitry's fall
from grace
into a successful TV format.
This wasn't difficult.
The masses have
always loved to watch
a powerful man's head roll.
There's no bloodier dictator
than the people.
Once Sidorov was arrested.
Putin's reelection was a mere
formality.
From that point forward.
the Russian government began
undergoing a profound change.
The power struggle shifted
from the public stage
to the Tzar's inner circle.
The State once again depended
on court intrigue.
There are those with an office
close to the Tzar's
and those with a direct line to
him.
There are those who accompany
him on overseas missions.
and those who vacation with him
in Sochi.
No detail can be overlooked.
no matter how trivial.
From seating plans at gala
dinners.
to waiting times
in the President's antechamber.
Nothing escapes a courtier's
attention.
I adapted to the new
regime as I adapt to everything.
Some were far better at it than
I was.
Like Igor Sechin.
Especially Igor Sechin.
Like many men of his kind
he drew his strength
from being underestimated.
When the period of the courtiers
came. he was in his element.
Indeed. he was head courtier.
Well. did you get what you want?
Got what the Tzar wanted.
He wanted Dmitry's business for
himself?
What he wants
is to destroy the oligarchs.
And replace them
with siloviki like yourself?
Russia has always needed
strongmen.
Soldiers. spies. police.
That's how I got where I am.
And why you take what you want.
Well done.
If that's how you wish to put
it. Vadim Alexeyevich.
Oh and watch out.
He's back from the G20 in
Berlin.
Tired. bad-tempered.
It's always the same.
they treat me like I'm...
the president of Finland.
They better watch out.
They need to be very careful.
The ability to inspire fear
is a poor man's sole weapon
when he's defending his dignity.
I learned that on the street.
Trouble is. Mr. President.
by spooking our enemies
we're in danger
of spooking the markets too.
And we can't afford that.
The markets never ruled Russia.
Vadya.
Maybe once.
Hm. Maybe once under-- under
Yeltsin.
What was the result then?
Law of the jungle.
We-- we need...
to take control.
Take control of all the wealth
of the country.
The forests. the mines. the gas.
and the petrol.
We'll see to it
that it serves the interests
and the glory of the Russian
people.
Like with Dmitry.
What about Dmitry?
Well. the oil monopolies
went directly from
Sidorov's pocket to Sechin's.
What's that got to do
with the interest and glory
of the Russian people?
Lovely weather. you
should have a dip before you
leave.
Thanks. another time.
You prefer Sochi?
You know why I'm here.
I'd like to hear you say it.
-There's a rumor... -You didn't
come here about a rumor.
Okay.
We have very reliable intel
that you're one of the Ukrainian
protesters' main supporters.
-Well. since you know...
-Putin is spitting mad.
I was worried.
but in fact
you come bearing good news.
Ukraine has been an integral
part of Russian territory
for centuries.
-Do you genuinely believe that?
-I'm just the messenger!
Know what he said?
"Go and see that fucker!
"Tell him he's gone too far
"and try to reason with him."
-You know what his problem is?
-I know what you think it is.
That he's not your regular
politician.
that he's KGB. he's a spy.
No. He's not a spy.
A spy's job is to gather
accurate intelligence.
but he's a counterspy.
A counterspy's job is to be
paranoid.
to see conspiracies everywhere.
and to invent them if necessary.
You've been in exile too long.
You've lost touch.
As if the poor Ukrainians
don't have every reason
to revolt against a
pro-Russian government.
You know who the main supporters
of the Ukrainian protesters are?
The CIA. the US State
Department.
major American foundations.
George Soros and you.
to the tune of 30 million
dollars!
Or so I've heard.
Well. that's politics. Vadya.
Do you know what else it is?
It's democracy.
You forgot the meaning
of that word long ago.
Remember. I'm not here by
choice.
I'm living in exile here. Vadya.
If I even set foot in Russia.
I'll end up in Siberia like
Sidorov.
Boris. despite our differences.
the Tzar is still your friend.
That's why you were permitted
to sell your Russian assets.
1.3 billion. correct?
Far less than they were worth.
What if I keep on at it. hm?
I didn't come here to threaten
you.
I understand your resentment.
But you can't turn against your
country.
Putin's Russia isn't my country.
In spite of all our flaws.
we managed to build a free
country
where you could do what you
want. you could say what you
want
for the first time in Russian
history.
And you have wrecked all that
in just a few years.
You turned Russia back into
what it always was...
a prison the size of a country.
Just like in the Soviet times.
Hello.
Is this your boat?
Nothing is ever mine.
At least not in the way you
mean.
Oligarch money?
Are you afraid?
Afraid your masters will find
out?
Masters?
From what I hear. you're in
the service to power now.
I suppose so.
You don't like Vladimir
Vladimirovich very much.
No. you're right.
I don't like power.
I like it even less when you kid
yourself and pretend it's modern
art.
Sorry Vadya. but I find you
despicable.
Despicable?
That's a bit harsh.
You've earned it.
You dodged my question.
Are we being bankrolled
by oligarchs as we speak?
This boat belongs to
a businessman from Portland.
He invented some software
when he was 24.
was a multi-millionaire by 26
and sold his company
to Microsoft by 28.
Been bored stiff ever since.
He'd like to have
another idea in his lifetime
but it's slow in the coming.
You sleeping with him?
Absolutely not.
When I have an idea
of a line of jewelry.
he funds it.
Sometimes he makes a bit of
money.
I mean.
clearly chump change to him.
And he lends you his boat
when it strikes your fancy?
Yes.
When I'm bored of this world.
which is often.
I take refuge here.
A gilded cage.
Your comfort zone.
I loved Dmitry.
I mean we had fun for a few
months.
I loved the crazy wind that was
blowing.
Then you got rid of him too.
I wasn't cruel.
Not that time.
We grew apart.
Dmitry got interested in oil.
I mean that didn't bring him
much luck.
But for a few years
I preferred Los Angeles
to anywhere else.
Was Hollywood up to your
standards?
Hollywood!
I stayed away--
I stayed away from Hollywood.
It's like Moscow.
Only power relationships count.
the rest is insignificant.
I liked the desert.
I liked the ocean waves.
driving along the Pacific Coast
Highway and
when I felt like going to Japan.
I went to Japan.
This is the prettiest cove.
Your plane awaits.
Tonight I'll be in Moscow.
How miserable.
The following autumn.
as expected.
the situation in Ukraine
worsened.
The protesters refused
to accept the election results.
Hundreds of thousands of them
occupied the Maidan.
Kiev's central square.
with songs. orange ribbons.
multicolored tents
and pro-Western slogans.
Suddenly. commissions
of international observers
came out of the woodwork
to dispute the
results of the election
which were won by pro-Russian
candidate Yanukovych.
Those elections were notoriously
rigged.
I happened to be there.
Really?
Well. there'd
just been a vote in Iraq
with American soldiers
controlling polling stations.
and everyone thought that was
fine.
But not in Ukraine.
No. in Ukraine
there had to be another vote.
because the result wasn't right.
They called that farce
the Orange Revolution.
and the previous year in Georgia
it was the Rose Revolution.
Another poetic revolution.
all pretty girls and lofty
ideals.
Yet another stooge of the
Americans
is catapulted to power.
Do you seriously believe
it takes a CIA conspiracy
to make Ukrainians
want to flee Russia's orbit
in favor of the European Union?
What people do you mean?
Do you really think everyone
finds your Europe so attractive?
Well. we don't need a crystal
ball to see that Russia's turn
is coming.
The next lovely color-coded
revolution will be in Moscow.
The future president of Russia
will have a degree from Yale.
That process seemed inevitable.
The young people were fed up
with us. and the Americans
were making the most of that
rebellion.
We'd have to be stronger than
them to survive.
Now the old methods
had outlived their usefulness.
locking up agitators.
expelling diplomats...
If we were in a bad mood that
day. eliminating opponents.
I don't believe in any of that.
So I took a chance
and tried a different tack.
The President has been informed
of your arrival.
He sends his greetings.
Alexander Sergeyevich.
I've been following
you and your Night Wolves
for a few years now.
I'm impressed.
You take those lost souls and...
give them a home.
a sense of discipline.
Our group gives them
two things they lacked:
fraternity and strength.
You aren't just a biker gang.
you're true Russian patriots.
We have values.
Russian values.
Those of our Holy Mother.
the Orthodox Church.
I understand.
Alexander Sergeyevich.
and so does the President.
Wolves are not merely predators.
they're also
the guardians of the forest.
Did you see what happened
in Ukraine?
Yes. Revolution.
A coup.
Do you know who took power?
-The Americans.
-Spot on!
They set up a youth
organization.
paid for free concerts in Maidan
Square.
I bet even the orange ribbon
was thought up by an adman.
Everything is geared to the
young
because their energy is the most
precious commodity out there.
Their frustration. their
desire to change the world.
Young people need a cause.
And an enemy.
We need to find them
a cause and an enemy
before they choose those things
for themselves.
Or worse. the Americans choose
for them.
Except we can't do that.
Look around you. Alexander.
all we have here
are bureaucrats in suits.
We're the adults.
we're in power.
We're their true enemy.
You're younger than me. I
believe.
You've taken a different path.
You embody freedom and
adventure.
Your vitality is undimmed.
Young people can feel that.
The Tzar is with you.
He's your brother.
He's no bureaucrat.
He likes speed. he does judo. he
hunts.
He is of the race of conquerors.
Do you think he'd join
one of our rallies?
Of course.
The Night Wolves will be
honored.
We'll hold a rally
for all the young patriots.
We'll kick off the struggle
against our true foe:
the decadent West and its false
values.
Maidan. but in reverse.
Exactly.
Russia must become a place
where people can vent their rage
against the world
while remaining
faithful servants to the Tzar.
Basically. you want to make
revolution impossible.
Let's just say we want to
remove the need for one.
Without a drop of vodka.
Zaldostanov left the Kremlin
intoxicated.
Little did he know my next
meeting
was with the intriguing
spokesperson
of an Orthodox renaissance
movement...
Followed by the head of a group
of strikingly crusty young
communists...
And the leader
of the Spartak supporters.
I recruited them all:
bikers and hooligans.
anarchists and skinheads.
communists and religious
fanatics.
from the far right to the far
left and beyond.
After what happened in Ukraine.
we could no longer leave
the forces of fury unchecked.
Monopolizing power
was no longer enough.
we needed to monopolize
subversion.
Wait. I will be back.
Vadim!
Miss Chekhova.
I'm so flattered you blessed
us with your presence.
Don't mock me. You know how
influential your salon is.
Love.
society gossip has never
had much influence on power.
Thanks to you I can rub
shoulders with my opponents.
Indeed.
Garry Kasparov is here.
Chess champions
have never gone far in politics.
Vadim Baranov.
-The Wizard of the Kremlin.
-That's me.
I hear you've given
your doctrine a name.
Indeed. "Sovereign Democracy."
Russia needs to be a democracy
to benefit from globalization.
I see no traces of democracy
in our society. but do carry on.
And sovereignty is politically
synonymous with stability.
The more stable the regime.
the more competitive it is.
You know what people say
of your "sovereign democracy?"
That it is to democracy
what an electric chair is to a
chair.
It's just a bit of clever wit!
At least it's funny.
You left the Côte d'Azur.
I never stay anywhere for long.
You know me.
it's not one of my attributes.
Are you living in Moscow?
{woman in background] Hi.
When I'm here.
I stay at the Hotel Metropol.
I rent a suite year-round.
Are you inviting me?
Do you remember my dear friend.
the dog-man?
Of course.
Arseny.
He's an acclaimed director now.
He's putting on Monteverdi's
Orfeo .
He's turning the whole theater
into a pagan basilica.
He calls it a space liturgy.
I was his high priestess in
Paris.
You want to come?
Maybe that kind of provocation
no longer interests you.
I'm not sure I remember who you
are.
I get lost in all your mazes.
It's a game.
Politics is really
the only game worth playing.
You've become cynical.
You've reached the limit
of your intelligence.
Cynical.
Possibly.
But not only.
I don't know.
I'll have to get back to you on
it.
As for now. I'm not sure.
Come with me to the opera.
We'll dine at the Metropol.
I'm tired. Ksenia.
What of?
Using your black magic
in the service of power?
The other day I caught a glimpse
of myself in a mirror.
only it wasn't me.
It was my father.
My father's face imprinted on
mine
despite my best efforts.
Let's go in.
I'm cold.
Last time you asked me a
question.
Remember?
Yes. You told me you needed some
time.
Now I can answer.
You aren't just cynical.
You have chosen to espouse your
times.
You could just as easily
have run away from them.
Do you like these times?
They're ours.
We're no better or worse than
they are.
I don't think I'm kidding
myself.
I embody the worst of them.
And you think you're gonna have
to answer for them one day.
Do you believe in the future?
I don't.
The future doesn't give a shit
about us.
"Our wound is raw
beneath the yoke of these times.
"See.
"behind the forest we walk.
"trembling.
"how a castle already lit
"in the evening awaits."
Rilke.
I'd forgotten.
I've never been
fascinated by St. Petersburg.
It's a museum
city. stuck in the past.
The Tzar. on the other hand.
can only fully relax there
with his oldest. truest
friends:
a motley crew of former FSB
agents. black belt judokas
and real-life thugs
who have hit the big time.
They. it must be said. were
straight out of Richard III.
In just a few years.
the shady provincial dealers
had amassed wealth worthy of
Gulf emirs.
Remarkable!
Bravo!
Really delightful.
Thank you.
-Thank you.
Okay. guys.
Our new chef's
specialty is truffle risotto.
Ah.
Let me know if I should keep him
or send him back to Italy.
Bon appétit.
Genia. you let us down.
You serve us truffle risotto.
but where is the arugula?
Shall I remind you
that our ice hockey team
finished the last championship
in sixth place?
We moved up seven spots in the
ranking
and overtook Dynamo Moscow.
Wait till next year.
you will see!
Well then. you'll have your
arugula next year.
You can't find decent arugula
in Russia.
But I've just bought an estate
by the Black Sea
in order to grow it.
It will be magnificent.
but there's a wait.
Keep the chef!
He knows what he's doing.
His flight home
to Pisa was already booked...
-Oh.
-On Ryanair!
Yevgeny clearly has high
standards.
But his talent goes beyond food.
It touches on geopolitics.
Even some subjects
we've been discussing lately.
It would be good
if you two had a word. Vadya.
I didn't know Prigozhin
well.
Except as a restaurateur.
But I did know Putin
had been shepherding his ascent
with unwavering benevolence.
A 5-minute flight.
Shortly after taking off
we began maneuvers
to land on Kamenny Island.
where the Tzar's close friends
lived in the grandest palaces
of the imperial aristocracy.
I'm not an intellectual like
you.
but life has taught me a few
lessons.
And not only in jail!
I don't doubt that.
Do you know how I started out?
My partners and I
obtained Saint Petersburg's
first-ever casino license.
You obtained it or the Tzar
gave it to you.
when he was deputy mayor there?
You know what a casino is?
A monument to human
irrationality.
Why the hell throw away your
money
when all the odds are against
you?
When you bet on human
irrationality. you always win.
Sure.
Sure. Take an average guy.
As long as he's comfortable.
has a safe job. can take family
holidays at the seaside.
has a retirement plan...
he stays put.
But if things don't look so
good...
If he loses his job. his house.
if the future is less certain...
will he play it safe?
Hardly!
He'll prefer risk
to a hopeless status quo.
Chaos becomes
more attractive than order.
Westerners see China. India.
thank God. Russia.
making great strides
while they're stalling.
And they're willing to make
the most unreasonable bets.
Our job is to encourage them.
The Internet.
It's the battleground of modern
warfare.
"Internet Research Agency."
I thought up the name.
Sounds good. right? What do you
think?
Hm.
Anton!
Our managing editor.
He has a PhD
in international relations
and speaks every language
you can think of.
Pleased to meet you. Anton.
Tell him what you guys are doing
here.
Influence. Information.
The Russian point of view on the
West. for Westerners.
They're convinced their media
and elites lie about everything.
so they'll buy alternative
versions.
The message we're sending is
that we tell the truth.
Russia tells the truth.
Like Russia Today.
Except that we work
in social media. not TV.
Shall we get some coffee?
We have a nice little break
area. Sofas. houseplants.
And ping pong tables.
You go on.
We'll catch up with you.
Yevgeny. you'll have to explain
because I don't quite get it.
Something wrong?
Can we talk?
Sure.
I thought our goal
was to affect mindsets
in Europe and the States.
Get into people's heads.
-Sure.
-And now you bring me Anton?
-He's the best.
-That's exactly the problem.
Don't you realize that
Westerners
aren't interested in politics
anymore?
If we want to screw them over.
we should talk about anything
but politics.
We don't need Anton.
-Who do we need?
-We need idiots.
Highly addictive ones.
Cyber-dependent otakus.
beauty-advice bimbos.
YouTube conspiracy theorists...
Anything that generates clicks.
But we have to get our message
through at some point. don't we?
Who do you think we are?
The Komintern?
I regret to inform you
that the Soviet Union is gone.
No more party line. no message
to get across either. Yevgeny.
Just wire.
Come on. let's go.
We're wasting our time here.
What wire do you mean?
How do you break a wire?
You twist it one way.
and then the other.
That's what we're going to do.
Yevgeny.
And how do you do that?
Build your network
and see who takes the bait.
They'll all have an obsession.
We won't know which the clicks
will show us.
One will be an anti-vaxxer.
another will be pro-life or
pro-choice.
It doesn't matter.
We won't convert anyone.
Yevgeny.
We just need them all to have
something that drives them nuts
and someone who enrages them.
It's infallible.
No preferences. Yevgeny. no
arguments.
Just wire.
We twist it one way and then the
other until it breaks.
Okay. I got it. Wire.
But everything is traceable
on the Internet.
and sooner or later we'll get
caught.
Yes. we will.
And that's what we're after.
Serving our allies is
predictable.
But how will they react
when they realize we're also
supporting our own opponents?
They'll think we're fools.
No. they'll go insane!
Lose their bearings.
All they'll know is that
we've gotten into their heads
and are playing with their
neural circuits as we please.
The Americans wrote the
algorithm.
We'll use it too.
only better than them.
Anyone accusing us of plotting
against democracy will be an
ally.
They'll build the myth
that we're all-powerful.
It'll be the greatest of all
secrets
because everyone will know it:
the Russians are controlling
the modern world.
They are its masters.
That's the interesting thing
about politics. Yevgeny.
Anything that makes you seem
strong
actually increases that
strength.
Borya.
Vadya.
Do you come bearing a message?
Sorry Borya. no message.
So. to what do I owe this?
Purely pleasure.
You're in London to see
the British Olympic Association?
You're well informed. as ever.
The Sochi Olympics seem to be
the only thing
- the Tzar cares about these
days. -
The President was kind enough to
let me
supervise the opening ceremony.
Well I hope you'll be
giving out medals
to the best political
assassination.
I don't know. Boris.
The main thing is
for Russia to come out on top.
I'm not worried.
You'll find...
the worst possible solution.
You always do.
Well. you may not
have a message for me. but...
I have one for him.
Oh. come on. there's no polonium
in it.
It's a letter to the Tzar.
I wrote it from the heart.
You can read it if you want to.
"I beg you to grant me your
forgiveness as a Christian..."
Are you serious?
I'm appealing to his faith.
and I'm offering my services.
"Based on the experience I've
gained..."
Listen. honestly. no way!
- But.
- Times have changed.
You're not in the running
anymore. Sorry if I'm being
cruel.
I'm appealing to his humanity.
Boris.
Who are you kidding?
"The hardship of exile?"
"The passage of time..."
"Death drawing near." I get it.
But I don't think it'll make him
blink.
The comfort of spending my final
days in our motherland.
You don't think he'll understand
that?
I have to go now.
Just give him the letter.
anyway.
I think it might cut it.
I genuinely do.
So...
Did it go well?
How could it possibly?
He helped you.
You could give him a hand.
Boris sees
the Sochi Olympics approaching.
There's still plenty of money
to be made.
even if everyone's already
lined their pockets.
Present company included.
Do you like those?
They're the main costumes
for the Opening Ceremony.
Most importantly.
does the British Olympic
Association like them?
Who cares?
They've already had to
swallow a Winter Olympics
at a balmy seaside resort.
Totally devoid
of athletic infrastructure.
Have you seen the others?
No. Not really. no.
Look. Each island represents
a period in our history.
They're animatronic
and float in midair.
Our entire literary history
will go marching by.
All the domes of Saint Basil's
will fly away.
And then... Swan Lake.
Like it?
Vadya. that Russia doesn't
exist.
At least not anymore.
But they're the ones
who inspired us back then.
It's too late now.
You know that.
You won't save your soul.
The ceremony is just a mask
for the dictatorship.
and the rest...
is just empty pretext.
I see through you.
It doesn't mean I don't love
you.
But I'm not gonna be
your partner in crime.
-Can I offer a drink?
-Champagne. please.
-Ma'am?
-Same.
Thanks.
The Tzar is...
going to free our old friend
Dmitry.
Are you sure?
It isn't the first time
you've told me that.
He'll do it two weeks before the
start of the Games.
Western media will have a field
day.
- Your
attention... -That's the idea.
...flight number 068. to Paris
The flight is ready to depart.
passengers
You never asked me what I did
with my day.
Not shopping...
that's not like you.
Something edgier.
Drop the sarcasm for five
minutes. will you?
I wasn't being sarcastic.
I was trying to guess.
I went to the gynecologist.
I'm pregnant.
-You look...
-I'm a little shocked. yes.
Actually. I'm blown away.
I have no words.
According to early
police reports
Boris Berezovsky's death
is consistent with hanging.
Berezovsky was found dead last
night in his Ascot residence.
Pathologists have found
no signs of a struggle.
Access has been closed
until the results of the tests
for chemical. biological
and nuclear agents
have been returned.
It had to end this
way.
Exile was too painful for him.
I'll miss him.
He painted an appalling image
of the opposition.
That was priceless for us.
This is the program
for the opening ceremony.
Updated according to your notes.
What is "Daft Punk"?
Um. electronic music.
Number 1 worldwide.
Two Frenchmen who never remove
their robot helmets.
This setup wasn't in the
previous draft.
They won 5 Grammy awards last
week.
We have to get up to date.
You've asked the police choir
to sing their song?
Vladimirovich. he's turning
the whole ceremony into a farce.
Okay.
Explain your rationale to Igor.
Today it's what people want to
dance to.
-It's that simple.
-It'll be ridiculous.
No. it'll be kitsch.
The entire world.
three billion spectators
are waiting for the greatest
show they've ever seen.
It can only be
the apotheosis of kitsch.
Kitsch is the only language
available to us
if we are to communicate
with the masses.
-We want to show them our
Russia. -They don't want to see
your Russia.
Besides. you have nothing to
show and everything to hide.
We want to paint the picture
of an open Russia.
Sure-footed.
but also capable of smiling.
Today's world requires
self-deprecation.
Not your balalaikas. Igor.
Do you understand what I'm
saying or is it gibberish to
you?
What can you do. hm?
Vadya is an acrobat.
An artist for politicians.
a politician for artists.
Be careful. Vadya.
Sooner or later
you might miss the trapeze.
Fall flat on your face.
I declare the 22nd Winter
Olympic Games of Sochi open.
That was probably
the night I should have left.
Closed the book at that page.
It was a good ending for me.
The Ukrainian
independence movement
seized on the Olympic ceasefire
to occupy Maidan Square again
Two days before the end of the
Games
they ousted pro-Russian
President Yanukovych.
who fled the same day.
The chaos that ensued
gave the Tzar
a golden opportunity
to invade Ukraine.
Russian snipers killed
over a hundred protesters.
They say you were in charge.
Who says?
Ukrainians.
From your own emails.
They say you have Ukrainian
blood on your hands.
The night before the closing
ceremony
following his grand plan.
the Tzar decided to annex
Crimea.
Crimea was part of Ukraine.
We weren't about to send regular
troops
to invade a sovereign country.
No.
You sent in Russian soldiers
who weren't wearing any national
insignia.
"Little green men".
as your fellow journalists used
to say.
Can I bother you for a moment.
Vadim Alexeyevich?
Go right ahead.
How did your trip to Lugansk go?
Well?
I'm sure you've read
your services' reports.
We have news from the Americans.
What news?
Seems they've drawn up a
blacklist
of people forbidden on their
soil.
Your name is on it.
I've got a feeling you'll have
to forget about going to New
York for a while.
Oh.
Their sanctions for the takeover
of Crimea.
When do they start?
This Monday.
It's good thing I stopped liking
New York a long time ago.
I've heard something else. too.
Go on.
It'll be official tomorrow.
Your name is also
on the Europeans' shortlist.
Paris.
London.
no more.
I'm told you'll miss Naples.
Well. I won't bother you
any longer. Vadim Alexeyevich.
I'm sure you have arrangements
to make.
And fast.
- Sir?
- Lionia. have you heard?
Yes.
Yes. tonight
or tomorrow at the latest.
Interview?
No. no interviews.
just a press release.
Can you take this down?
Yes.
"I see this sanction as an Oscar
"awarded for my entire political
career.
"It means I have served
my country honorably."
Full stop.
- Any thing
else? -No. that's all.
Thank you.
Ksenia?
{Ksenia on phone] Yes.
Pack your bags.
I'll be over in 15 minutes.
A few hours later
we landed in Stockholm
for our last European weekend.
I suppose it was bound
to happen.
Only you could avoid it.
By resigning.
For instance.
Power is addictive.
It's a tough habit to kick.
Before. when you spouted
that kind of truism.
I could hear the irony.
Not anymore.
There was none.
The war in Ukraine is like the
rest.
I never wanted it.
I even opposed it.
If you say so.
Indeed.
I do say so.
And I also say that once the
Tzar had made up his mind.
I did everything I could
to see it succeed.
Out of habit.
Out of pride.
And because I could.
With no compunction.
That's true.
That's how it's always been.
With the Moscow bombings
and the war in Chechnya.
With Dmitry's arrest
and Berezovsky's fall.
And now the murders on the
Maidan.
I never wanted any of those
things. yet...
each depended on my tireless
labor.
And now you're tired.
Russia devoured my grandfather.
You met my father.
it devoured him too.
I don't know about me.
I don't know if I'll be saved.
Probably not.
In any case. it's too late.
But our child will be saved.
Ksenia?
Ksenia!
Going to Novo-Ogaryovo
was never much of a thrill.
The bleak. sporty mood pained
me.
After I got back from Stockholm
I almost never set foot there
again.
A prince's trust is not a
privilege. but a conviction.
I had played my part.
I was no longer of any use.
At some point. I let him get
out of the habit of seeing me.
That's all.
He gets up early
and breakfasts on fresh eggs
sent by Patriarch Kirill from
his farm.
If there's an emergency. that's
when he reads his confidential
notes
and makes his wishes known.
Next. he swims a
kilometer.
His first visitors wait
by the pool.
Ministers. advisors. CEOs.
The presidential motorcade only
leaves
for the Kremlin in the early
afternoon.
The streets are closed
half an hour prior.
Putin drives from Novo-Ogaryovo
to the Kremlin
through his frozen capital.
And his real day begins.
Sometimes only ending at dawn.
One man stays awake
while everyone else who matters
in Moscow shares his vigil.
Like in Stalin's day.
Who's that? Who's this?
Oh.
Hi. my sweet one.
Can I play with Machka?
Of course you can.
You're not bothering us.
Where is she?
Where's that Machka?
- Is she under the table?
- No.
-She's not under the table?
-No.
- Is she under the
cushion?
- No.
- Are you sure?
- Is she under the piano?
-No.
- There.
- There she is.
There she is.
All the happiness I've known in
the world is concentrated in
her.
Daddy.
what do you think Machka would
say if she could talk?
Hm. I think she'd say.
"I'd have more fun with a real
rabbit."
Daddy!
No. no. no. She'd say.
"I like you best of all. Anya.
"I only want to play with you."
Cats aren't my favorite thing.
But how much longer will I be
able to make her happy?
I never felt fear before Anya.
From the moment I first laid
eyes on her.
I've been living in terror.
I realize my life is in her
hands.
not the other way around.
My daughter doesn't count
the hours or the days.
I've always lived in the future.
And she has given me the
present.